[Killa Trumpz] guestKlue of [a]Things You Probably Won’t Learn in PSYCH70
________________




Trumpz! Hello!
Been a minute since we last spoke. It is I, Nik/Miles/Dumptrucc, coming at you with another good and fun and fresh guestKlue. If you’re like me and your grip on reality is steadily deteriorating from your biweekly state-mandated Safeway runs, let me freshen up ur memory. You might know me from hits including “guestKlue of High Contrast Photos of Fruit Floating Threateningly in the Night”, the guy who consistently nails the AOTL mellz line on alto horn, or the “Best ‘It’s Not a Phase, Mom’ Song” Instagram story tournament that definitely wasn’t rigged so an Offspring song would triumph. Dat me! Formalities aside, let’s get into this.


It is currently Week 8/9/10/2/who knows, and I am just beginning to process the amount of work I put into my Intro to Sociology class last qtr. (sidebar: ya boy officially got his ADT from Foothill! I’m transferring to the U of San Fran this fall to finish undergrad) Damn that class was a doozy. We had some fun assignments like a Movie Analysis but my prof said that my thesis on Whiplash and socialization in higher education was not deep and profound enough; I ended up having to grind out a 20 page final paper to maintain that 4.0. Dr. Fox took my sanity but I took the dub 💪


So, because everything I’ve written this quarter has been within the scope of organizational dilemmas (unfortunately), I’m on kind of a hot streak of academic writing. This eklue’s gonna be educational! Today we’re going to cover some special topics in social psychology that I’ve taken a liking to during my short career in the humanities. Interpret it how you wish, but I just wanted to give y’all something to chew on as we wait for Miss Corona to run her course. Lets gooo00o0o0oo0o0o0o0






Uhhh we don’t actually have any section events this week. But here are some fun/important things to do
Also i just really wanted to write a guestklue
Activities & Leisure
	Activism & Outreach
	LSJUCraft (Stanford’s Minecraft Server)- Survival, Creative, & Campus Worlds!
	Join Campaign Zero
(nonprofit org working to eliminate broken-window policing and racial discrimination in law enforcement)
	The Bundesliga (German football) is back! Start following a new live sport
	

	



Psychosocial Development and Conflict Resolution: COLLEGE LIFE Edition
  
  

It’s more than a Slipknot song!


This is a fun one. As someone who’s concentrating in adolescent health and development, I tend to work with this theory a lot- and I think in the entire field of psych, Erikson’s work best details the way in which our learning processes are influenced by identity formation and our social networks.


Erik Erikson (now THAT’S a name) was a German-American psychologist and psychoanalyst who’s best known for his work in the scope of developmental psychology- essentially, the science that explains growth, chance, and consistency throughout one’s lifespan. He was heavily impacted by the work of Sigmund Freud; however, unlike Freud's theory of psychosexual stages, Erikson's theory described the impact of social experience across the whole lifespan. Erikson was interested in how social interaction and relationships played a role in the development and growth of human beings. He did this by separating stages of life by internal conflict- that is, various psychological conundrums that arise at certain points in one’s development; failure to successfully complete a stage could result in a reduced ability to complete further stages and therefore a more unhealthy personality and sense of self.


One stage- the fifth-  is crucial in determining one’s threshold for social development as they transition into a semi-independent lifestyle. Stage 5 (Adolescence) addresses the conflict of Identity vs. Role Confusion. Here, the adolescent will re-examine their identity and try to find out exactly who they are. Erikson suggests that two identities are involved: the sexual and the occupational. During this period, they explore possibilities and begin to form their own identity based upon the outcome of their explorations; if they fail to establish a sense of identity through their external interactions, they enter adulthood having undergone role confusion (also referred to as an identity crisis).


A good indicator of how our internal process factors into later social interactions comes in the form of our lives right now! Lots of outgoing high school seniors who opt for going straight to a 4-year carry through with their extracurricular activities at said college. Kids who did Model UN join student government or a new Model UN, band loyalists join marching bands and symphonic orchestras, football benchwarmers join frats, and on and on. Psychosocial research has showcased a student’s choice in how they dictate their time actually determines whether or not they’ll view their collegiate experience as constructive. Specifically, student involvement theory holds that student learning is increased when there is more involvement in both academic and social aspects of the collegiate experience; moreover, Alexander Astin stated that student learning and personal development associated with any program is directly proportional to the quality and quantity of student involvement in that program (Krumrei-Mancuso et al., 2013).


Extracurricular involvement in the college years can also determine how one will tackle Erikson’s sixth stage, Intimacy vs. Isolation- in which we begin struggling to form close, intimate relationships. Past literature has noted that becoming involved in extracurricular activities generally promoted development of academic autonomy and aided in clarification of purpose for seniors, but involvement delayed development of mature interpersonal relationships for some students (Smith & Griffin, 1993).


Works Cited
Krumei-Mancuso, E. J., Newtom, F. B., Kim, E., & Wilcox, D. (2013). Psychosocial Factors Predicting First-Year College Student Success. John Hopkins University Journal of College Student Development, 54(3).
Smith, J. S., & Griffin, B. L. (1993). The Relationship between Involvement in Extracurricular Activities and the Psychosocial Development of University Students. College Student Affairs Journal, 3(1), 79–84.








LSJUCRAFT
Back in March some cool hip kids in ‘22 started a Minecraft server! It’s a good time; visit www.lsjucraft.xyz, hit Play, and fill out the form to get whitelisted! Once you’re in, you can:


-Play in survival mode with pretty much me and a ton of incoming frosh
-Help me expand ChaiCoin, my cryptocurrency business empire that’s frighteningly widening the wealth gap
-








Archetypes, Generalization, & Social Pseudoscience: Why the Myers-Briggs Test is Actually Kind Of Problematic
     




TL;DR: That guy with “ENTJ” in his bio? Swipe left.


You know that thing that your employer made you take because it’s gOoD fOr meAsuRiNg hOw weLl yOuLL wOrK wItH tHe tEaM? Yeah. It’s an outdated and misdirecting test that’s pretty much useless except for helping amateur fiction writers design character archetypes.


The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator actually originated from a theory proposed by Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung in the 1920’s, who formulated eight separate personality types that became the basis for Myers and Briggs’ later work. According to Jung, every person is predisposed to be dominant in either Extraversion or Introversion, indicating where we direct our energy—outward, toward the external world, or inward, toward our own minds. Hence, Jung was able to detail eight archetypes that touched on the dimensions of extraversion vs. introversion: Extraverted Thinking, Introverted Thinking, Extraverted Feeling, Introverted Feeling, Extraverted Sensation, Introverted Sensation, Extraverted Intuition, Introverted Intuition. Ring a bell?


When Katharine Briggs and her daughter Isabel Briggs Myers came along a couple decades later, they saw Jung’s eight differentiations and raised him sixteen. They utilized three of Jung’s dimensions- Extraversion/Introversion, Sensing/Intuition, and Thinking/Feeling- but added their own fourth element, Judging/Perceiving. While Myers and Briggs were successful at broadening the classification of personality types, their methodology was flawed and they frequently extrapolated from incomplete and misleading data. And while it’s unarguably true that neither Myers nor Briggs had any formal training in psychology (or background in science for that matter)  the issues with the Myers-Briggs Test lie not in qualifications, but in the fact that Jung’s theories were untested and that the MBTI uses false, limited binaries that result in hasty generalization of one’s true personality.
Several studies in the realm of organizational psychology have failed to find that completion of the MBTI is indicative of healthy group cohesion; available literature suggests that there is insufficient evidence to support the tenets and claims about the utility of the test (Pittenger, 1993). Not only that, but Carl Jung himself once acknowledged that although his original binaries were good for the sake of providing a broad overview, many people will fall somewhere in between classifications; he did not think there was such a thing as a pure extrovert or introvert.


Additionally, many questions on the MBTI boil complex social scenarios down to the black-and-white fallacy, forcing testtakers to choose a classification that may not accurately reflect their empirical reasoning- and in turn, it can result in them ignoring an equally important and dissenting component of their rationale (google ‘identity formation in biracial children’ for research that’s eerily similar). Combine this with the fact that as many as 50% of people who take the test demonstrate notoriously inconsistent results, and you can get a pretty good idea why people’s MBTI results are actually widely disregarded by the psychology community.


The Myers-Briggs test is basically Astrology with extra steps and that's that on that


Works Cited


Pittenger, D. J. (1993). The Utility of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator. Review of Educational Research, 63(4), 467–488. https://doi.org/10.3102/00346543063004467


Event 2
Description text


The Interdependence of Stereotype Threat and Imposter Syndrome in Academia
  
  



Racism and classism are interlocking systems of oppression




  
where the pursuit of higher education is hyper-stigmatized to the point where 


Event 3
Description text












Groupthink: An Organizational Perspective
  
  
  

Pro tip: part of developing open-mindedness is recognizing disagreement as a healthy means to expand your knowledge! It’s worth the extra bit of time


In the context of social psych, the groupthink phenomenon generally occurs when a group of people make irrational or non-optimal decisions spurred by the urge to conform or the discouragement of dissent. This premature consensus can be fueled by a particular agenda or simply because group members value harmony and coherence above rational thinking.


Groupthink (also referred to as herd/pack/mob mentality) can be catalyzed by a myriad of distortions including but not limited to illusions of invulnerability, rationalizing, unquestioned beliefs, and the idea of “mindguards”- self-constructed cognitive censors that disclose dissenting information from the group. 


In a groupthink situation, group members refrain from expressing doubts and judgments or disagreeing with the consensus. In the interest of making a decision that furthers their group cause, members may ignore any ethical or moral consequences. If the group dynamic functions by simply “going with the flow”, this also leads group members to alienate information or opinions that contradict the majority’s viewpoint for the sake of maintaining the status quo, which greatly relates to Bibb Latané and John Darley’s idea of the bystander effect. Furthermore, the illusions of invulnerability and unanimity contribute to the extremely harmful mindset of blind optimism, when a person or group has the tendency to focus on the positive aspects of a plan or situation, but is virtually “blind” to any potential pitfalls.










Event 4
Description text




That’s all I’ve got for now. I know in terms of actively playing trumpet I was in-and-out for a bit before corona, and I think that’s actually one of the things that I think about a lot as I look forward into the coming months and next school year. It’s strange- a part of me thinks I took being in Trumpz for granted.


And because of that, I want to briefly give some long-overdue shoutouts to Will Healzer, Will Dunlop, Gretchen, Ben, and Brody for truly exemplifying what it means to be an ally during this new reality. Whether it’s checking in from time to time, having thoughtful discussions about active activism, or just providing hilarious content on a 2AM Discord call (ask Brody and I about daelynslokes11), you’ve all been instrumental (pun obviously intended) in keeping me relatively sane the past couple of months. 








Mia san mia,


dump “moreso a fighter than a lover” trucc










Niklas Miles Goodman [he/they]
B.A. Candidate | Psychology; conc. Health & Development
Humanities Mellon Scholar
University of San Francisco | Class of 2022
niklasmg@gmail.com | (626).437.4087


[a]https://www.toprightpartners.com/insights/20-transformational-quotes-on-change-management/